
B.Tech. Programmes at IIT Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur offers eight B.Tech. Programmes, namely,

 	1. B.Tech. (Bioscience & Bioengineering)	 
 	2. B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering)	 
 	3. B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering)	 
 	4. B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)	 
 	5. B.Tech. (AI and Data Science)	 
 	6. B.Tech. (Chemical Engineering)	 
 	7. B.Tech. (Materials Engineering)	 
 	8. B.Tech. (Civil and Infrastructure Engineering)	 
 	9. B.Tech. (Electronics Engineering)	 
 	 	 
 
For details of Curriculum please visit the page and Program Structure click here .

 
UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMMES OF IITJ: CURRICULUM FOR A GLOBAL ENGINEER
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur is committed to educational excellence through a strong student-focused educational experience and to provide quality education with the contemporary and highly professional curricula. In order to achieve this objective, IIT Jodhpur has undergone thorough curriculum change in the year 2019 and came up with a new curriculum. This article highlights philosophy ingrained in the new curriculum and some salient features.
 
The societal challenges of the 21st century are profound and wide-ranging. Basic needs such as energy, food and water, housing, mobility, and health will become even more acute as the world population exceeds 9 billion. The demands for sustainable development will require redefined and innovative engineering talent and leadership. The emergence of a connected, competitive, and entrepreneurial global economy, in which successful engineers increasingly need technical competency and professional skills that differ from what worked in the past. These reasons build up a clear case for disruptive revision of the undergraduate curriculum.
 
Some of the attributes expected of modern engineers are:
 1.	 Flexibility to understand and manage rapidly evolving technologies;
 2. 	 Ability to identify, define as well as solve problems;
 3. 	 Proficiency in theory and applications;
 4. 	 Skill for handling out-of-the-box engineering challenges;
 5. 	 Capable of Creative Thinking;
 6. 	 Experience of entrepreneurship;
 7. 	 Understanding of public policy implications.
 	 
Today the creative function of engineering is expected to be viewed and understood in the broader context of the new patterns of knowledge creation across disciplines obliterating traditional boundaries between science, humanities and social sciences, arts and engineering. IIT Jodhpur has pursued a newer structure of programmes in addition to classical programmes to address these opportunities.

Objectives

The objective of the new curriculum is to define a novel instructional paradigm and content plan to address modern demands of professional education (as outlined above) based upon the philosophy of outcome-based education. The curriculum builds on four guiding principles of outcome-based academic, i.e., 

 1.	 All students can learn and succeed but maybe not on the same day or in the same way  

 2.	 Each success by a student breeds more success (success must open up the opportunity of more success)

 3.	 Academic institutions create and nurture the conditions of success

 4.	 The academic system acknowledges and respects challenging initiatives without fear of failure.

 

Unique features of the UG curriculum

Unique features of the undergraduate curriculum are highlighted next:

The curriculum emphasized the fundamentals of basic and engineering sciences to enable learners to have a broader multi-disciplinary perspective for the specialisation being pursued. Departmental courses focus on fundamental scientific principles behind technologies.
Avenues created for pursuing co-curricular and extra-curricular creative interests as an integral component of the curricular content by introducing nongraded courses on social connect, performing arts, and communication skills. As an outcome of these pursuits, a student is expected to improve their capacity to imagine and to build up enthusiasm to pursue unknown territories through purely creative ventures.


Early design courses are introduced which focus more heavily on conceptual design methods and less on discipline-specific artefacts. These courses teach that design is open-ended; that there are numerous engineering challenges beyond domains of traditional disciplines, and that students could begin to think and work like engineers.
Avenues created for making students continuously engaged in these intellectual processes throughout the curriculum and at an increasingly sophisticated level through design credits. Such continual integrative experiences help students to expand and deepen their “internal knowledge structure” of the discipline, which will aid their eventual retrieval and use. 
Opportunities and challenges continue to require engineers to literally invent the future by developing breakthrough technologies that solve global problems and enhance the quality of life. Entrepreneurship education has been introduced in the curriculum as a minor which gives them solid experience in product design and development, prototyping, technology trends, and market analysis


Options of Department Area Specialisation and five-year B.Tech.+M.Tech. allows students to pursue in-depth study of the topics of interest belonging to the programme. Department Area Specialization in Engineering Innovation has also been introduced with the aim of making students Industry Ready by offering five months Practical Project jointly with an Industry or R & D organization. Students get real-world experience working for an industry or R & D organization on a project that complements their academic experience.
With the rapid change in the contours of engineering education due to emergence of Miniaturization, Parallelism, Smart Materials, Bio-mimetic Systems, AI and Cognitive Systems, the role of engineering institute is not only preparing students in their major areas of study but also on other skills to encourage interdisciplinary teams to address challenges faced by the society. The emphasis has been laid on the development of technical skills in interdisciplinary areas and upcoming fields by introducing various Interdisciplinary specializations such as AI, CPS, IoT, Robotics, Smart Healthcare, etc.
With evolving patterns of knowledge creation across disciplines and obliterating traditional boundaries between science and engineering, a capability linked Double B.Tech. with second degree in Engineering Science is introduced to pursue newer structures of programmes in addition to classical programmes to provide ability to apply diverse knowledge and skills flexibly in novel situations.


 With changing paradigms of Evaluation and Assessment, the performance of students in a course is evaluated not only thorough examinations but also on a continuous basis which include but not limited to interaction in the classroom interaction, quizzes, assignments, tutorials, laboratory work, term papers and projects. Technology-enabled aids have been assimilated into continuation evaluation as an integrated component. 


The finer granularity in grading has been introduced to allow for more precise and fairer grading, provide a more reliable indication of student performance, and give students a better opportunity to improve their grades.
Throughout the curriculum Efforts have been laid down at building up Strong Foundation, Enabling Continuous Learning, Inter-disciplinary Breadth, Design Thinking, Imbibing Creative and Critical Thinking, Social Responsibility and Professional Ethics, and Sustainability as distinct thematic Commitment.

Master of Technology Programs
 	1.	M.Tech. (Bioscience & Bioengineering)
 	2.	M.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering)
 	3.	M.Tech. (Artificial Intelligence)
 	 
 	4.	M.Tech. (Cyber Physical Systems)
 	5.	M.Tech. (Sensors and Internet of Things) Discontinue from AY 2026-27
 	6.	M.Tech. (Data and Computational Sciences)
 	 
 	7. 	M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing and Design)
 	8.	M.Tech. (Thermofluids Engineering)
 	9.	M.Tech. (Materials Engineering)
 	 	 
 	10.	M.Tech. (Chemical Engineering)
 	11.	M.Tech. (Environmental Engineering)
 	12.	M.Tech. (Energy Infrastructure)
 	 	 
 	13. 	
M. Tech (Communication Systems)

 	14.	MTech AR VR
 	15.	Robotics
 	16.	Quantum Technologies
 	17.	Bridge Engineering
 	18.	Drone and Anti-Drone Technologies

	Welcome To The Integrated Teacher Education Programme:
	The Integrated Teacher Education Programme (ITEP), as envisioned by the National Education Policy, 2020, offers a unique opportunity for the IIT ecosystem as a whole to directly contribute to shaping the next generation of leaders. IIT Jodhpur is proud to announce the commencement of ITEP (BSc-BEd) for Secondary Stage with Major in Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics from 2024.

The Secondary Stage (classes IX to XII), which represents a critical point of transition between school and higher education, deserves special attention in the Indian context. The significant challenges at this stage include the issue of retaining students in the school system, streaming them according to their innate potential and interests, and preparing them to acquire the necessary technological and discipline specific exposure for future academic and career choices.

The Jodhpur Model of Teacher Education envisions the all-round development of the Graduate Teacher for the Secondary Stage who will have (i) strong technological, pedagogical and content knowledge (ii) motivation for self-improvement and self-organization (iii) commitment to constitutional values and fundamental duties (iv) strong ethics and values (v) passion and drive for innovation in teaching (vi) effective communication skills (vii) dedication to lifelong learning, and (viii) empathy for students and commitment to their well-being.

Message From The Director:


Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal

Director, IIT Jodhpur

Greetings from IIT Jodhpur!

The most significant challenge for the transformation of school education is the absence of qualified and competent teachers. It is estimated that India has a shortfall of more than 10 lakh school teachers. The National Education Policy 2020 reminds us that teachers are critical to the goal of nation-building, and achieving a just and prosperous society, rooted in our cultural values and civilizational history. In this context, the new Integrated Teacher Education Programme (ITEP) is a vital step that we as a nation will be taking towards building a new kind of education system. This will bridge the rich values, traditions, history and civilizational legacy of India with the futuristic potential offered by new technologies for sustainable, inclusive and enriching life on planet Earth.

The ITEP Program at IIT Jodhpur is an opportunity for all students who want to be the kind of school teachers who will make a difference in STEM education at the Secondary Stage. An important need of our nation is to equip learners in the age group 14 to 18 years with the necessary modern skills and competencies to participate in a rapidly transforming global knowledge ecosystem, shaped by disruptive technologies including artificial intelligence. Our present age requires creative solutions to pressing problems of human rights, sustainable development and global well being. This means thinking out of the box and moving away from traditional models of school education, which reward rote learning and kill the innate creativity of children.

My dynamic team of faculty members will work to create the next generation of teachers whose knowledge and pedagogy will free the creative imaginations of their students, leading to novel solutions for Viksit Bharat and global development. Excellence in disciplinary knowledge, cutting edge curricula, intellectual freedom and deep awareness of the local and national needs are the hallmarks of pedagogy at IIT Jodhpur. I believe that this ethos of the institute will equip school teachers who are passionate about teaching and learning. We want to develop teachers who possess a strong sense of respect to Fundamental Duties, faith in constitutional values and pride in our Indian ethos. This will give them an energy to work passionately and tirelessly to understand and solve problems at the local, national and international levels.

We invite you to be part of this journey as we develop a ‘Jodhpur model’ of teacher education that will advance the pursuit of knowledge, wisdom and truth in the nation and the world at large! I have faith that this will be an unforgettable journey for everyone involved in this process.

Program Objectives:
To ensure that future educators are equipped with the skills, especially in the area of science, technology, and pedagogy, which are required to adapt to evolving educational needs, the objectives of the 4-year Integrated BSc-BEd Program (ITEP) for the Secondary Stage at IIT Jodhpur include:

Developing necessary competencies in graduates for teaching at the secondary stage of school education (classes 9 to 12) (as envisioned by NEP and NCTE Curriculum Framework, p.18)
Capacity building in the area of Science & Technology Education in India
Developing pedagogical skills among teachers in India
Enabling technology integration in the classroom for future learners of India
Building connection with the society and inculcate the required communication skills

Expected Graduate Attributes:
After completing this programme, the graduate would have:

A deep understanding of educational theories and principles, suitable for teaching at the secondary stage of school education (classes 9 to 12) (as envisioned in NEP and NCTE Curriculum Framework, p.18)
Training in attributes specific to teaching in Grades (9-10) and for Grades (11-12)
A comprehensive knowledge of the subject to be taught
Skillset to integrate technology into teaching to enhance learning experiences
An understanding of various forms of assessments to measure student progress
A commitment to continuous professional development
A commitment to build positive connections with the surrounding society through their teaching practice and model this to their future students by example


The ITEP is being coordinated at IIT Jodhpur by their Center for Education & Technology for Education (CETE) and has involvement of faculty members across various disciplines. Know more about the CETE at iitj.ac.in/cete .

MBA:
Eligibility Criteria and Selection Process
The admission into the flagship Master of Business Administration (MBA) program of the School of Management and Entrepreneurship (SME), leading to the MBA or the MBA- Technology degree, is based on the criteria and process as indicated below:

Note 1: During the first year, students complete foundational courses across various disciplines. In the second year, they can select one of two tracks, leading to either an MBA or an MBA-Technology.

Note 2: Students completing their first year at SME, IIT Jodhpur, also have an opportunity to pursue their second year at one of the partner B-schools abroad (SUNY-Albany Business School, USA; Brandeis International Business School, USA; George Washington University, USA; and Case Western Reserve University, USA), resulting in the International DualDegree.



1. Eligibility Criterion
A. Qualifying degree: A minimum of a Bachelor’s Degree or an equivalent qualification awarded by any university established by an Act of the central or state legislature in India, or by other educational institutions established by an Act of Parliament, or recognised as a deemed university under Section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956. Additionally, the Bachelor’s degree or equivalent must entail a minimum of three years of education following the completion of higher secondary schooling (10+2) or its equivalent.

Note: Final-year students of the qualifying degree are also eligible to apply. Such candidates, if selected, will be admitted provisionally on the condition that they meet all requirements of the qualifying degree. The candidate must submit all certificates related to the qualifying degree up to the current completed semesters/years. Additionally, the candidate must provide a provisional certificate of completion of the qualifying degree within two months of joining the program (if selected). Failure to meet these requirements will lead to the cancellation of the candidature for the program.

B. Minimum percentage of marks in the qualifying degree:

(i) A minimum of 60% marks in aggregate (of all the years/semesters), which should be equivalent to first class in the university conversion rule. This is applicable for General/OBC/EWS categories.

(or)

(ii). 6.0 CGPA (Cumulative Grade Point Average) on a 10-point scale, which should be equivalent to first class in the university conversion rule. This is applicable for General/OBC/EWS categories.

Note:

The admission eligibility requirements may be relaxed for a qualifying degree by 5% on point B(i) for SC, ST and PwD candidates.
The admission eligibility requirements may be relaxed for a qualifying degree by 0.5 (on a 10-point scale) on point B(ii) for SC, ST and PwD candidates.
The above relaxation shall be considered only as Qualifying Criteria.
C. A valid score in the Common Admission Test (CAT) 2025 conducted by the Indian Institutes of Management.




2. Admission Process
The admission process for the MBA program will consist of two steps: initial shortlisting and final shortlisting. The criteria for each step are outlined below:

A. Initial shortlisting

An initial shortlist will be created based on the composite score, calculated using the following parameters and corresponding weights. Relaxations for all reserved categories will be applied in accordance with the norms of the Ministry of Education, Government of India, amended from time to time.

CAT Overall Scaled Score
Work Experience (Full Time)
Gender Diversity
Note 1:

CAT cutoffs may be applied to shortlist candidates, and these cutoffs could be based on the overall CAT percentile or sectional CAT percentiles, or both. The cutoff percentiles will be considered based on the number of applications received.

Note 2:

Work experience gained in coaching centres, self-proprietary, small-scale businesses (like retail stores, Kirana stores, NGOs, or petrol pumps/gas stations) will not be considered at all.
 Work experience of 15 or more days in a month will be counted as 1 month, while experience of fewer than 15 days will not be counted.
Experience letters and the first and last month’s salary slips must be provided at the time of the interview. Any claims of work experience not supported by pay slips or a formal relieving letter from the respective organisation(s), as specified in the MBA program application, will be deemed invalid and will result in disqualification from the entire selection process.
The cutoff date for calculating work experience is the day the application for MBA admissions goes live.
No consideration will be given to any time spent as an intern, either during or after the course of study, or any periods of apprenticeship (such as articleship) required for certain professional courses, or any unpaid work undertaken in any organisation or institution.
The final discretion regarding the type, level, and extent of work experience lies with the institute authorities.
B. Final shortlisting

(i) Candidates from all categories, shortlisted based on the composite score, will be called for a Personal Interview (via virtual mode).

(ii) The final shortlist will be prepared based on the following criteria, with due weights assigned to each component. Relaxations for all reserved categories will be applied in accordance with the norms of the Ministry of Education, Government of India, amended from time to time.

Composite Score
Personal Interview


3. For International Applicants
A. Eligibility: As stated earlier in point 1 (A and B of Eligibility Criterion). The legality and equivalence of the degree can be verified with the help of the Association of Indian Universities (AIU).

B. Admission process: Merit-based, based on a Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score of 300 and above, or a Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) score of 600 and above, achieved within the last five years from the date of admission at SME, IIT Jodhpur.



4. Candidates Joining while Retaining Employment with their Current Employer
Any candidate joining the MBA program at SME, IIT Jodhpur, who is on study leave, sabbatical, or higher study leave, must submit a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from their employer. The NOC should either state that the employer has no objection to the candidate applying for a summer internship or final placement with another organisation, or confirm that the candidate is required to undertake the summer internship exclusively with the employer and return to the same organisation after completing the program.



5. Important Dates
Online submission of the application form begins on 13th January 2026 
Online submission of the application form closes on 12th February 2026. Extended: 10th March 2026
Interview schedule: Tentatively starts from 10th March 2026.
Note

The above dates are only tentative and are liable to change.
IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to change, modify, add, or remove any shortlisting and selection criteria, as well as any other information in the MBA program admissions document, if deemed necessary at any time. Any disputes related to MBA admissions will be subject to the jurisdiction of the competent courts within the territorial jurisdiction of Jodhpur city only.
In case of any ambiguity or dispute regarding the interpretation, the decision of the IIT Jodhpur shall be final and binding.

How to Apply
1. For Indian Students
Visit the Application Portal at: Click here.
The non-refundable application fee is INR 1,200 for Unreserved/OBC-NCL/EWS categories, and INR 600 for SC/ST/PwD categories.
Applicants may contact us using erp@iitj.ac.in email ID for technical issues.
Note: Incomplete application forms will not be considered for the MBA program.



2. For International Students
Visit the Application Portal at: Click here
Applicants may contact us using office_ir@iitj.ac.in or 0291 280 1115 for any information.


3. Important Dates
Online submission of the application form begins on 13th January 2026
Online submission of the application form closes on 12th February 2026, Extended: 10th March 2026
Interview schedule: Tentatively starts from 10th March 2026.
Note: The above dates are only tentative and are liable to change



4. For any further inquiries related to MBA admissions, please contact:
Admissions Office

School of Management & Entrepreneurship (SME)

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Karwar, NH 62, Jodhpur, Rajasthan 342030

Email: admission_sme@iitj.ac.in

Phone No: 0291 280 1807

Fee Structure & Student Intake
1. For Indian Students
A. Program Fee Structure (2026-2028)

The tuition fee for the program is INR 2,25,000/- per semester. In addition to the tuition fee, students are required to pay the semester fee, admission fee (one-time), convocation fee (one-time), refundable deposits (one-time), dining fee, and any other applicable charges.
Students opting for the international dual degree program in their second year are required to pay the day-scholar fees at IIT Jodhpur, as well as any other applicable fees at the Partner Institute.
Note: Students from SC, ST, and PwD categories are exempt from paying the tuition fee, as per government norms, amended from time to time. However, they are still required to pay all other charges mentioned above. * The components of the semester fee are subject to change from time to time.

B. Student Intake

The intake of the program is 80.

Note: Norms of the Ministry of Education, Government of India, shall be adhered to for the category-wise breakup.



2. For International Students
A. Program Fee Structure (2026-2028)

The tuition fee for international students from SAARC countries will be 1.5 times the fee applicable to Indian students.
The tuition fee for international students from non-SAARC countries will be 2 times the fee applicable to Indian students.
All other components of the fee will remain the same as those applicable to Indian students for all international students.
The components of the semester fee are subject to change from time to time.
B. Student Intake

The intake of the program is 10.